# 2026-03-13

- Julie Lorent
- About Feb NAISS Connect and File transfer

- Q: there were at least 2 flaws.
  Have you seen them? How would you explain them?
    - Yes
- Q: what did you see that you do not understand
  the idea behind?
    - Why multiple quiet room? For 1-on-1 talk
- Q: what did you see that think should be done
  more often in courses?
    - Actively let learners help each other
- Q: how did you feel as an observer
    - It should be done more: there is so
    much to learn from doing that

J likes the reflection and thinks we
should all do this.

J thinks I am too harsh about myself

J's five features of good teaching:

- `1.` Having in mind that, to learn, one needs to:
    - Reachable goal: nothing to say about
    - motivation: yes, discussed why
    - safe environment: yes, e.g. small zoom rooms
    and 'is is OK to say I do not know'
- `2.` Letting learners help each other

Changing the schedule, e.g. being learner
centered makes one feel unsafe.

Q to self: what does the literature say?

J: make it clear what is fixed in the schedule
and what is not.

J agrees with teaching from the start (i.e.
do a proper Prior).

Letting learners help each other.
The 'teacher'

J sees the fade out effect of me coming into the
room. A learner volunteered to help with me around,
but backed down when I left.

Team play: works well, both seem to trust each other.

Renaming learners themselves did not work,
it did not work for J.

- [ ] Before teaching, let learners try to rename themselves,
  to make sure it works

Only men talked in the main room.
